### Str
This function returns a string representation of a number.

**Syntax**

**Str(number)**

**Arguments**

The Str function has the following argument:

| number | Required                                                                                |
|--------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | Any expression. If the expression is not numeric, it is converted to a Numeric<br>type. |

When numbers are converted to strings, a leading space is always reserved for the sign of *number*. If *number* is positive, the returned string contains a leading space and the plus sign is implied.

**Examples**

x = Str(324)

### Tab
This function is used with the Print # statement or the Print method to position output.

For more information see [Print #](#page-33-0)statement or the [Print](#page-122-0)method.

**Usage**

**Tab**[**(**n**)**]

The Tab function has this argument:

| n | Optional                                                                                    |
|---|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|   | The column number to move to before displaying or printing the next expression<br>in a list |

If *n* is omitted, Tab moves the insertion point to the beginning of the next print zone. This allows you to use Tab instead of a comma whenever you use the comma as a decimal separator.

If the current print position on the current line is greater than *n*, Tab skips to the nth column on the next output line. If *n* is less than 1, Tab moves the print position to column 1. If *n* is greater than the output line width, Tab calculates the next print position using the formula:

```
n Mod width
```
For example, if *width* is 80 and you specify *Tab(90)*, the next print will start at column 10 (the remainder of 90/80). If *n* is less than the current print position, printing begins on the next line at the calculated print position. If the calculated print position is greater than the current print position, printing begins at the calculated print position on the same line.

The left-most print position on an output line is always 1. When you use the b statement to print to files, the right-most print position is the current width of the output file, which you can set using the [Width #](#page-41-0)  statement.

**Examples**

Tab(2)

### Val
This function returns the numbers contained in a string as a numeric value of the appropriate type.

**Syntax**

**Val(**string**)**

**Arguments**

The Val function has this argument:

| string | Required                    |
|--------|-----------------------------|
|        | Any valid string expression |

The Val function stops reading the string at the first character it can't recognize as part of a number. However, the function recognizes the radix prefixes &O (for octal) and &H (for hexadecimal). Blanks, tabs, and linefeed characters are stripped from the argument. The Val function recognizes only the period (.) as a valid decimal separator.

**Examples**

i=Val("123")

## Automation Support
The macro engine in the program supports Automation through its automation objects. After an object is created using CreateObject( ) or connected to using GetObject( ), the object's methods may be called using the usual syntax.

```
Object.Method arg1, ..., argn
var = Object.Method( arg1, ..., argn )
var = Object.Property
Object.Property = expression
```
**Related Topics**

**[CreateObject](#page-47-0)**

[GetObject](#page-53-0)

## Dialog Box Controls
The macro language of this program uses the following dialog box controls:

[CheckBox](#page-69-1) [CheckListBox](#page-70-0) [ComboBox](#page-72-0) [EditBox](#page-73-0) [GridControl](#page-75-0) [ListBox](#page-75-1) [PushButton](#page-76-0) [RadioBox](#page-76-1) [SliderControl](#page-77-0) [SpinButton](#page-78-0) [TabControl](#page-78-1) [TreeItem](#page-79-0) [TreeView](#page-80-0)

### CheckBox
This control represents a check box on a dialog box. You can reference a particular check box using the Control method of a dialog box. The CheckBox object uses the State and Property methods.

**State**

This method sets the state of the check box.

**Syntax**

**checkbox.State(iState)**

**Arguments**

State has this argument:

| iState | Required                                                      |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | A numeric expression, representing the check box state to set |

*iState* may have one of the following values:

**Table 18. CheckBox.State istate Values**

| Value       | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 0, or False | Unchecked   |
| 1, or True  | Checked     |

**Table 18. CheckBox.State istate Values (continued)**

| 2<br>Indeterminate |
|--------------------|
|--------------------|

**Value Property**

This method returns or sets the state of the check box control.

**Syntax**

```
checkbox.Value[=iState]
```
**Arguments**

The Value Property has this argument:

| iState | Required                                                      |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | A numeric expression, representing the check box state to set |

iState may have one of the following values:

**Table 19. CheckBox.Value istate Values**

| Value       | Description   |
|-------------|---------------|
| 0, or False | Unchecked     |
| 1, or True  | Checked       |
| 2           | Indeterminate |

### CheckListBox
This control represents a check list box on a dialog box.

**State**

This method sets the selection state of the check list box.

**Syntax**

```
CheckListBox.State(string)
```
**Arguments**

The State method has this argument:

| string | Required<br>Any valid string expression, containing the list of items to select |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

**SetCheck for CheckListBox**

This method sets the check state of the check list box.

**Syntax**

**CheckListBox.SetCheck(**string**)**

**Arguments**

The SetCheck method has this argument:

| string | Required                                                                                                                         |
|--------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | A string expression, containing the list of the items to check. All the items that do<br>not appear in the list are not checked. |

**ListCount Property for CheckListBox**

This method returns the number of items in the check list box.

**Syntax**

CheckListBox.ListCount

**SelCount Property for CheckListBox**

This method returns the number of selected items in the check list box.

**Syntax**

CheckListBox.SelCount

**Selected Property for CheckListBox**

This method returns or sets the selection status of an item in the check list box. This property is an array of Boolean values with the same number of items as the List property.

**Syntax**

```
CheckListBox.Selected(index)[=boolean]
```
**Check Property for CheckListBox**

This method returns or sets the checked status of an item in a check list box. This property is an array of Boolean values with the same number of items as the list property.

**Syntax**

```
CheckListBox.Check(index)[=boolean]
```
**Text Property for CheckListBox**

This method returns the text of the item currently selected in the check list box.

**Syntax**

**CheckListBox.Text**

### ComboBox
This control represents a combo box on a dialog box.

#### Select
This method sets the selection state of the combo box.

**Syntax**

**ComboBox.Select(**string**)**

**Arguments**

The Select method has this argument:

| string | Required                                                            |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | A string expression, containing a string to select in the combo box |

**Examples**

ActiveLayer.Select("Top")

**Edit for ComboBox**

This method sets the edit state of the combo box.

**Syntax**

**ComboBox.Edit(**string**)**

The Edit method has this argument:

| string | Required                                                                                 |
|--------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | A string expression, containing a string to insert into the edit box of the combo<br>box |

**Text Property for ComboBox**

This method returns or sets the combo box text.

**Syntax**

**ComboBox.Text**[=string]

**Arguments**

The Text method has this argument:

| string | Required                                                           |
|--------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
|        | A string expression, containing the text to set into the combo box |

**List Property for ComboBox**

This method returns or sets the items contained in the combo box list. This list is a string array in which each element is a list item.

**Syntax**

**ComboBox.List(**index**)**

**SelStart Property for ComboBox**

This method returns or sets the starting point of the selected text. If no text is selected, this method indicates the position of the insertion point.

**Syntax**

**ComboBox.SelStart**[=index]

**SelLength Property for ComboBox**

This method returns or sets the number of characters selected.

**Syntax**

```
ComboBox.SelLength[=number]
```
**SelText Property for ComboBox**

This method returns or sets the string containing the currently selected text. If no characters are selected, this method returns a zero length string ("").

**Syntax**

**ComboBox.SelText**[=string]

**Arguments**

The argument is a string expression, containing the text to set into the edit box.

