### PartType.Logic Property
This property returns the logic family of the part type.

**Usage**

Logic As String

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves the logic family of the part type 7400, assuming it exists in the open schematic. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

Sub Main

```
MsgBox "The Logic family of 7400 is " & 
 ActiveDocument.PartTypes("7400").Logic
```
### PartType.Name Property
This property returns the name of the part type.

**Usage**

Name As String

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

For example, this property returns the string "7402" for part type 7402.

This property is the default property for the Component object.

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves all part types in the open schematic and places that list in a custom dialog list box. When a part type is selected in the list box, the sample selects all parts of that part type in SailWind Logic. This sample uses the UserDialog Editor in the Sax Basic Engine in SailWind Logic. See Sax Basic Editor On-line Help for more information.

See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

```
Dim ListPkgs$(10000)
Sub Main
index = 0 
for Each nextPkg In ActiveDocument.PartTypes
ListPkgs$(index) = nextPkg.Name
index = index + 1
Next nextPkg
' This piece of code is automatically generated by the SailWind Logic Basic 
 Dialog Editor.
Begin Dialog UserDialog 180,238,"Part Types",.CallbackFunc ' 
 %GRID:10,7,1,1
```
ListBox 10,7,160,203,ListPkgs(),.ListBox1

OKButton 10,210,160,21

End Dialog

Dim dlg As UserDialog

Dialog dlg

End Sub

```
' The following function is automatically called by the system when 
 something has happened
```
' in the dialog; it is used to easily process user actions.

Function CallbackFunc%(DlgItem\$, Action%, SuppValue%)

Select Case Action%

Case 2 ' Value changing or button pressed

If DlgItem\$="ListBox1" Then

ActiveDocument.SelectObjects(plogObjectTypeAll, , False)

'get part by name

Set pkg = ActiveDocument.PartTypes(ListPkgs(SuppValue%))

'select part

pkg.Selected = True

'activate sheet where first gate of the part is located

pkg.Components(1).Gates(1).Sheet.Activate

End If

End Select

End Function

### PartType.ObjectType Property
This property returns the type of the object.

**Usage**

ObjectType As [PlogObjectType](#page-286-0)

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

This property returns [PlogObjectTypeP](#page-286-0)artType.

All SailWind Logic database objects in the SailWind Logic Automation server implement this property to compensate for the lack of a Basic equivalent for the Visual C++ QueryInterface function.

This property is generally used:

- To identify the kind of SailWind Logic database objects in a heterogeneous [Objects Collection](#page-194-0) [Object](#page-194-0).
- When implementing a generic routine that depends on the type of the SailWind Logic database object passed as an argument. For example:

Sub DoSomething(dbObject As Object)

Select Case dbObject.ObjectType

Case plogObjectTypeComponent

' Do something specific to component objects

Case plogObjectTypeNet

' Do something specific to net objects

Case plogObjectTypePin

' Do something specific to pin objects

Case plogObjectTypeGate

' Do something specific to gate objects

Case plogObjectTypePartType

' Do something specific to part type objects

Case Else

MsgBox "Not a SailWind Logic database object"

End Select

### PartType.Parent Property
This property returns the parent of the object.

**Usage**

Parent As Documenton page 419

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

### PartType.Selected Property
This property sets or returns whether the components of the part type are selected.

**Usage**

Selected As Boolean

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

The part type is considered selected when one or more components of this part type is selected. You can also select a SailWind Logic database object using the [Document.SelectObjects Method](#page-111-0)or [Objects.Select Method](#page-206-0)methods.

**Examples**

The following sample code selects part type 7400 only, assuming it exists in the open schematic, and activates the sheet on which it resides. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

```
Sub Main
ActiveDocument.SelectObjects(,,False)
 ActiveDocument.PartTypes("7400").Selected = True
```

```
 ActiveDocument.PartTypes("7400").Components(1).Gates(1).Sheet.Activate
```
End Sub

**Related Topics**

[Document.SelectionChange Event](#page-117-0)

## Pin Object
The Pin object represents a physical pin that exists in the open schematic.

The following list identifies the Pin Properties:

[Pin.AlphaNumber Property](#page-222-0) [Pin.Application Property](#page-223-0) [Pin.Component Property](#page-224-0) [Pin.ElectricalType](#page-225-0) Property [Pin.FunctionName Property](#page-227-0) [Pin.Gate Property](#page-228-0) [Pin.GatePinName Property](#page-229-0) [Pin.Name Property](#page-230-0) [Pin.Net Property](#page-232-0) [Pin.ObjectType](#page-233-0) Property [Pin.Parent Property](#page-235-0) [Pin.PositionX Property](#page-236-0) [Pin.PositionY Property](#page-237-0) [Pin.Selected Property](#page-238-0) [Pin.SwapClass Property](#page-239-0)

### Pin.AlphaNumber Property
This property returns the alphanumeric of the pin.

**Usage**

Alpha Number As String

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves the alphanumeric pin number for pin U1.1, assuming it exists in the open schematic. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

```
Sub Main
 Set U1_1 = ActiveDocument.Pins("U1.1")
MsgBox "Pin U1.1 has pin number " & U1_1.AlphaNumber & " in component " &
```
U1\_1.Component.Name

### Pin.Application Property
This property returns the SailWind Logic Application object.

**Usage**

Application As Applicationon page 401

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

This property identifies the object as a SailWind Logic Automation object. All Automation server applications have an Application object and all Automation objects have an Application property. This property is normally used in large Automation client applications that handle large volumes of objects from different sources, such as different Automation server applications. Use the property to quickly identify the application to which the object belongs.

