### View.Change Event
This event occurs when the current view changes.

**Usage**

View\_Change ()

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

This event occurs after the current view changes or active sheet changes.

**Related Topics**

[View.Pan](#page-279-0) Method

[View.SetExtents](#page-281-0) Method

[View.SetExtentsToSheet](#page-284-0) Method

[View.SetExtentsToAll](#page-283-0) Method

## Constants
The following constants are available.

**PlogDocumentColor**

Possible values are:

| plogDocumentColorBackground       | = 0, |
|-----------------------------------|------|
| plogDocumentColorSelection        | = 1, |
| plogDocumentColorConnection       | = 2, |
| plogDocumentColorBus              | = 3, |
| plogDocumentColorLine             | = 4, |
| plogDocumentColorPart             | = 5, |
| plogDocumentColorHierarchicalComp | = 6, |
| plogDocumentColorText             | = 7, |
| plogDocumentColorTextBox          | = 8, |

| plogDocumentColorRefDes       | = 9,  |
|-------------------------------|-------|
| plogDocumentColorRefDesBox    | = 10, |
| plogDocumentColorPartType     | = 11, |
| plogDocumentColorPartTypeBox  | = 12, |
| plogDocumentColorPartText     | = 13, |
| plogDocumentColorPartTextBox  | = 14, |
| plogDocumentColorPinNumber    | = 15, |
| plogDocumentColorPinNumberBox | = 16, |
| plogDocumentColorNetName      | = 17, |
| plogDocumentColorNetNameBox   | = 18, |
| plogDocumentColorField        | = 19, |
| plogDocumentColorFieldBox     | = 20, |

**PlogObjectType**

SailWind Logic database object type. Possible values are:

• plogObjectTypeUnknown = 0 -

The server may return this value to indicate an invalid object. The client may use this value when trying to work with empty object collections.

- plogObjectTypeComponent = 1
- plogObjectTypeNet = 2
- plogObjectTypePin = 3
- plogObjectTypeGate = 4
- plogObjectTypePartType = 8
- plogObjectTypeLibrary = 18
- plogObjectTypeLibraryItem = 19
- plogObjectTypeApplication = 20

• plogObjectTypeAll = 9999 -

All SailWind Logic Automation database object types, including the Component, Net, Pin, Gate, and PartType objects.

**PlogUnit**

SailWind Logic unit types. Possible values are:

| Unit types            | Description                                                   |  |
|-----------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|--|
| plogUnitCurrent = 0   | Current unit in use in the SailWind Logic.                    |  |
| plogUnitDatabase = 1  | Internal SailWind Logic database unit.                        |  |
| plogUnitMils = 2      | Mils unit (1/1000th of an inch).                              |  |
| plogUnitInch = 3      | Inch unit.                                                    |  |
| plogUnitMetric = 4    | Metric unit (1/1000th of a meter).                            |  |
| plogUnitDrawArea = 99 | Internal SailWind Logic workspace unit. Never use this value. |  |

**PlogGridType**

SailWind Logic grid type. Possible values are:

| Grid types          | Description                  |
|---------------------|------------------------------|
| plogGridNone = 0    | None.                        |
| plogGridDesign = 1  | SailWind Logic design grid.  |
| plogGridDisplay = 3 | SailWind Logic display grid. |
| plogGridAll = 9999  | All SailWind Logic grids.    |

**PlogPinElectricalType**

SailWind Logic gate electrical types. Possible values are:

- plogElectricalTypeUnknown = 0
- plogElectricalTypeSource = 1
- plogElectricalTypeBidirectional = 2
- plogElectricalTypeOpenCollector = 3
- plogElectricalTypeOrTieableSource = 4
- plogElectricalTypeTristate = 5
- plogElectricalTypeLoad = 6
- plogElectricalTypeTerminator = 7
- plogElectricalTypePower = 8
- plogElectricalTypeGround = 9

**PlogASCIIVersion**

SailWind Logic ASCII versions. Possible values are:

- plogASCIIVerCurrent = 0
- plogASCIIVer1\_2 = 1
- plogASCIIVer3\_0 = 2
- plogASCIIVer3\_5 = 3

**PlogNetListVersion**

SailWind Logic/SailWind Layout netlist versions. Possible values are:

- plogPowerPCBNetListVerCurrent = 0
- plogPowerPCBNetListVer2\_1 = 2
- plogPowerPCBNetListVer3\_0 = 3
- plogPowerPCBNetListVer3\_5 = 4

**PlogGateVisibility**

SailWind Logic gate visibility items. Possible values are:

- plogAttrVisibility = 0
- plogAttrNameVisibility = 1
- plogRefDesVisibility = 2
- plogPartTypeVisibility = 3
- plogPinNumberVisibility = 4
- plogPinNameVisibility = 5
- plogPCBDecalVisibility = 6
- plogPCBDecalNameVisibility = 7

**PlogDefaultPosition**

SailWind Logic default position coordinates. Possible values are:

plogDefaultPositionX = &H80000000

plogDefaultPositionY = &H80000000

**PlogMeasureFormat**

SailWind Logic default position coordinates. Possible values are:

plogMeasureFormatStandard = 0

plogMeasureFormatCurrent = 1

plogMeasureFormatShort = 2

plogMeasureFormatLong = 3

**PlogLibraryItemType**

SailWind Logic library item types. Possible values are:

- plogLibraryItemTypePartType = 0
- plogLibraryItemTypeDecal = 1
- plogLibraryItemTypeLogicDrawing = 2
- plogLibraryItemTypeDrawing = 3
- plogLibraryItemTypeAll = 9999

## Optional Arguments
An optional argument is an argument to a property or a method that can be omitted because a default value is used in SailWind Logic. The default value is the value that is statistically most used or one that is most representative for that argument.

For example, if the method M([arg1], [arg2]) has both arg1 and arg2 arguments set as optional, you can call the method M in four different ways as shown below:

| Argument Examples                        | Description                                                            |
|------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| M()                                      | The default values of both arg1 and arg2 are passed.                   |
| M( <value1>)</value1>                    | Arg1's <value1> and arg2's default value are passed.</value1>          |
| M(, <value2>)</value2>                   | Arg1's default value and arg2's <value2> are passed.</value2>          |
| M( <value1>, <value2>)</value2></value1> | Both arg1's <value1> and arg2's <value2> are passed.</value2></value1> |

**Table 1. Optional Argument Examples**

## Exception
An Automation exception is special notification from the SailWind Logic server that signals the Automation client of an error. For example, if a Basic script is trying to delete an attribute that doesn't exist, SailWind Logic generates an exception.

When the script receives the exception, the following occurs:

- If an exception handler is implemented using the Basic On Error statement, the flow of execution of the client code is rerouted to the exception handler.
- If an exception handler in not implemented, the client's default handler is called. In all Basic interpreters, the default handler is a break point at the line that generated the exception.

## Variant
A Variant is a data type that can contain or represent any kind of data, such as a Boolean value, an Integer value, a Long value, a Double value, a String value, or an Array.

The Variant data type is used in SailWind Logic Automation in two different situations:

- When the argument of a property or method is a data that can be represented as different values and value types. For example, a specific object, in a collection of objects, is referenced by its index in the collection (a Long value) or by its name (a String value).
- When the argument or the return value of a property or a method is a complex type, not explicitly defined by SailWind Logic Basic object. For example, an array of points is represented as a Variant.