### Component.ObjectType Property
This property returns the type of the object.

**Usage**

ObjectType As [PlogObjectType](#page-286-0)

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

This property returns [PlogObjectType.](#page-286-0)

All SailWind Logic database objects in the SailWind Logic Automation server implement this property to compensate for the lack of a Basic equivalent for the Visual C++® QueryInterface function.

This property is generally used:

- To identify the kind of SailWind Logic database objects in a heterogeneous [Objects Collection](#page-194-0) [Object](#page-194-0).
- When implementing a generic routine that depends on the type of the SailWind Logic database object passed as an argument. For example:

Sub DoSomething(dbObject As Object)

Select Case dbObject.ObjectType

Case plogObjectTypeComponent

' Do something specific to component objects

Case plogObjectTypeNet

' Do something specific to net objects

Case plogObjectTypePin

' Do something specific to pin objects

Case plogObjectTypeGate

' Do something specific to gate objects

 Case Else MsgBox "Not a SailWind Logic database object" End Select End Sub

### Component.Parent Property
This property returns the parent of the object.

**Usage**

Parent As Documenton page 419

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

### Component.PartType Property
This property returns the part type of the component.

**Usage**

PartType As String

**Arguments**

None

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves the part type of component U1, assuming it exists in the open schematic. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

Sub Main

MsgBox "The part type of U1 is " & ActiveDocument.Components("U1").PartType

End Sub

**Related Topics**

[Component.PartTypeObject](#page-63-0) Property

### Component.PartTypeLogic Property
This property returns the logic family of the part type of the component.

**Usage**

PartTypeLogic As String

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves the logic family of the part type for component U1, assuming it exists in the open schematic. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

Sub Main

```
MsgBox "The Logic family of U1 is " & 
 ActiveDocument.Components("U1").PartTypeLogic
```
End Sub

**Related Topics**

[PartType.Logic](#page-213-0) Property

### Component.PartTypeObject Property
This property returns the part type object of this component.

**Usage**

PartTypeObject As [PartType on page 234](#page-209-0)

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves the part type object for component U1, assuming it exists in the open schematic. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

Sub Main

```
MsgBox "The part type of U1 is " & 
 ActiveDocument.Components("U1").PartTypeObject.Name
```
End Sub

**Related Topics**

[Component.PartType](#page-61-0) Property

### Component.PCBDecal Property
This property returns the PCB decal of the component.

**Usage**

PCBDecal As String

**Arguments**

None

**Description**

None

**Examples**

The following sample code retrieves the current decal for component C1, assuming it exists in the open schematic. See "Code Samples"on page 21 for more information on running this sample.

Sub Main

MsgBox "C1 PCB decal is " & ActiveDocument.Components("C1").PCBDecal

### Component.Pins Property
This property returns the collection of all pins of the component.

**Usage**

Pins As [Objectson page 219](#page-194-0)

Pins(*name* As String) As [Pinon page 246](#page-221-0)

**Arguments**

| Argument | Description              |
|----------|--------------------------|
| name     | Name of an existing pin. |

**Description**

Returns all pins of the component including:

- Visible used gate pins (pins of used gates).
- Invisible "signal" pins (do not belong to any gate, but are associated with some signal).
- Invisible unused gate pins (belong to unused gate).
- Invisible unused part pins (do not belong to any gate and are not associated with any signal).

When an existing pin *name* is passed to this property, it returns that [Pin Object](#page-221-0). Otherwise, it returns the collection of all pins of the component in an [Objects Collection Object](#page-194-0).

**Examples**

The following sample calculates the number of all types of pins in part U1.

```
Sub Main
 SigPins = 0
 AllPins = 0
 UsedGatePins = 0
 UnusedGatePins = 0
 UnusedPartPins = 0
```

```
 UnconnectedPins = 0
```
Set U1 = ActiveDocument.Components("U1")

'get total pin count

AllPins = U1.Pins.Count

For Each p In U1.Pins

If p.Gate Is Nothing Then 'if pin does not belong to any gate

If p.Net Is Nothing Then 'if pin is unconnected then it is unused

UnusedPartPins = UnusedPartPins + 1

Else

SigPins = SigPins + 1 'otherwise it is a signal pin

End If

Else

 If p.Gate.Sheet Is Nothing Then 'if pin belongs to gate but gate is not installed

UnusedGatePins = UnusedGatePins + 1

Else

UsedGatePins = UsedGatePins + 1

End If

End If

'if pin is not connected

If p.Net Is Nothing Then

 UnconnectedPins = UnconnectedPins + 1 End If Next MsgBox "Total Pin Count is " & AllPins & vbCr & \_ "Signal Pin Count is " & SigPins & vbCr & \_ "Used Gate Pin Count is " & UsedGatePins & vbCr & \_ "Unused Gate Pin Count is " & UnusedGatePins & vbCr & \_ "Unused Part Pin Count is " & UnusedPartPins & vbCr & \_ vbCr & \_ "Unconnected Pin Count is " & UnconnectedPins, \_ "Pin Info of U1 part"

